
The Digital vision for Surrey has always been focused on the Council becoming a truly modern organisation, providing the fullest possible breadth of digital services. Our digital journey  began four years ago with changes to our technology, and today we are taking the biggest step yet: changing ourselves.

You’ll see us sharing a lot of content  just like this over the coming weeks and months for that reason, as we communicate our activities and encourage the whole organisation to embrace the opportunities of a digital-first mindset. It’s a big part of our wider organisational plan, which we call The Surrey Way.

But let’s take a step back and recap our journey.

Back in 2019 we started identifying a set of core technology capabilities that would enable us to support the Council's ambitions. At that time, we were very tech-focused and a lot of the early effort went into identifying and procuring new tools and putting them in place. Then there was a period of trialling, testing, and experimentation to make sure they actually did what we wanted them to do.

Then we moved to our next phase, which was all about restructuring ourselves to work in new ways. We engaged a number of consultants and invested in adding new skills to the Council’s internal teams, all aiming to create a whole new methodology for how we tackled problems in innovative, agile, and effective new ways. What evolved was the Digital Design philosophy that we now employ. It was a really positive step; it enabled us to start carrying out discovery, design and development rapidly and with a much better understanding of the immediate needs of our residents and service teams.

You can read more about that in content we have already published.

It also meant taking a step back to ensure that we’d be truly customer focused when choosing how to design new processes and systems. Customers are our residents, but they’re also everyone who works at the Council. This was meant to feel different and provide a different set of outcomes to the more purely technology-driven projects of the past. 


 

COVID and The Surrey Way
The Surrey Way is the Council’s strategic framework and digital, data, and digital-enabled change is a foundational part of the framework’s four key pillars. How successfully we grow to think about these things – and change the way we work with them – will determine how fast our progress will be.

Of course, we now know that changing how we work and adapting to a digital mindset is not necessarily as intimidating as it may have once seemed. The COVID pandemic helped us to understand that.

Everyone remembers how COVID accelerated the adoption of tools like MS Teams  which has now become  a normal and familiar part of our working day. There was little choice other than to quickly embrace a step-change in ways of working and the use of digital tools. Once adopted, tools such as meeting-room tech and online video collaboration quickly became part of the way the council works.

Outside our organisation, the vast majority of residents already live in a digital world. From how we buy things to how we inform ourselves, our lives are driven through smartphones and apps. We don’t do that because we’re forced to, we do it because it’s better. So, as a Council, we need to reflect that and keep pace by providing  and delivering services in a likeminded way, and alongside this, keep working to include the minority who still struggle to access online services through a lack of skills or access to technology. We don’t do this because we have to, but because we know it will be better for all of us.

For me, that’s achieved by innovating quickly and continually enhancing services. It’s exactly what our Digital Design methodology is all about. Where once we may have spent months or even years rolling out sweeping technology changes from the centre and hoping people could adapt, we now work with people across the Council to understand their specific problems, then work together to solve them one by one.

Taking a slightly broader view, Digital offers us both the tools and the ways of working we need to be even more ambitious for residents, and to seize opportunities to reimagine services. New technologies are emerging all the time and residents’ expectations are changing as they do. By setting ourselves up with not just the core skills and technology to stay ahead of the curve, but with a digital-first mindset across the organisation to match, we can take full advantage of the many benefits that change represents.

Looking firmly at the here and now, the possibilities of digital-enabled change are about to be turbo charged. We have arrived at the early stages of what feels like a seismic technological event with the emergence of generative AI and tools such as ChatGPT and Google Bard. Not a day goes by without a news item or social media post about the introduction of a new capability or reports about how AI will change the very nature of work and our lives. This presents our council with a huge opportunity along with some risks. We know that tools such as ChatGPT may already be being explored by the tech savvy and curious, and we need to ensure that we experiment and explore at pace within defined guardrails to ensure the way they are used at work is safe and reliable.

Let’s talk
A big part of our Digital mission is to drive general awareness of the capabilities at our fingertips, and to demystify the process of accessing them. We’re here to enable everyone at the Council to reimagine how they do what they do, to remove frustrations and unlock far more satisfying and productive outcomes. We’re not here to dictate, but to listen and to act in collaboration. The better we do that and break down the walls between people, teams, and service areas, the faster we’ll be able progress.

 Perhaps one of the biggest parts of that is to provide reassurance. Not just to provide everyone with the confidence to try new things and seize new opportunities but to sweep away misconceptions. It’s hard to look around without seeing some headline or another that makes the ‘cold march’ of technology seem scary, whether that’s harvesting data, automating people’s jobs away, or leaving decisions to artificial intelligence.

The truth is these are technologies that are already helping us to stop being robots ourselves, taking away time-consuming, boring tasks so we can spend much more time doing more of the things we care about. We’ve got great examples of success to share already, and we’re only just getting started.

 It’s our job to make sure everyone understands that being a force for change, day in day out, is a fantastic opportunity not just to make our own working lives better, but those of our residents as well.

We are already busy making Surrey’s new digital era a reality. It’s an entirely collaborative process – the more we all engage and explore, the faster we will achieve really positive change. Read about it over here, and do get in touch or why not join our DDaT Network by following this link. 
