Governance 
Policy on using 3rd party AI tools including generative AI such as chatGPT

Should we develop a usage policy for generative AI?​

​
Acknowledge that workforce is likely already using generative AI, either on an experimental basis or to support their job-related tasks. ​

To avoid “shadow” usage and a false sense of compliance, Gartner recommends crafting a usage policy rather than enacting an outright ban. ​

Keep the policy simple - recommend it can be as streamlined as 3 don’ts and 3 do’s if using ChatGPT or another off-the-shelf model


Don’t input any personally identifiable information.​

Don’t input any sensitive information.​

Don’t input any intellectual property.​

Do turn off history if using external tools (like ChatGPT) that enable that choice.​

Do closely monitor outputs, which are subject to sometimes subtle but meaningful hallucinations, factual errors and biased or inappropriate statements.​

Do talk with your Departmental IG Officer to discuss your intended business use.


Guidance​
Best Practice
Agree and communicate clear guidelines
​

Start inside. Before using generative AI to create customer- or other external-facing content, test extensively with internal stakeholders and employee use cases. We don’t want hallucinations to harm business.​

Prize transparency. Be forthcoming with people, whether they be staff, customers or citizens, about the fact that they are interacting with a machine by clearly labelling any conversation throughout.​

Do due diligence. Set up processes and guardrails to track biases and other issues of trustworthiness. Do so by validating results and continually testing for the model going off course.​

Address privacy and security concerns. Ensure that sensitive data is neither input nor derived. Confirm with the model provider that this data won’t be used for machine learning beyond our organisation.​

Take it slow. Keep functionality in beta for an extended period of time. This helps temper expectations for perfect results.

Guarrails
Proposed Best Practice Model​
Can I use ChatGPT as a business solution?​

What does your intended business use involve?​
Discuss this with your departmental IG Officer. the request may fall under 3 

1- Safe to use 
No Personal Identifiable Information (PII) involved​

All data safe to publish publicly​

No intellectual property (IP) involved​

AI not making any decisions

Can use with:​

A business licensed version​

A risk assessment in place for the defined purpose

2- Can be used conditionally 
No Personal Identifiable Information (PII) involved​

Business data involved​

AI not making any decisions

Can use with:​

The governance of a project in place​

A business licensed version​

A risk assessment in place for the defined purpose

3- Cannot be used​ 
Personal Identifiable Information (PII) involved​

Confidential or commercially sensitive data involved​

Intellectual property (IP) involved​

AI making decisions
