Statement of Work (SoW)


Project Title: Proof of Concept (PoC) for Digitisation of certificates in the service

Objective: The main objective of this PoC project is to test and validate the OCR (Optical Character Recognition) capability of UIPath platform with a strong focus on achieving high accuracy and confidence levels in index books and birth certificates. This will be applied to two distinct forms of documents: Index Books and Birth Certificates from variety of time periods (1900s, 1950s- 1980s). The secondary focus will be on designing the PoC, which includes a 'human-in-loop' correction mechanism, along with a fuzzy search system that allows for fuzzy matches instead of full or exact matches.

Scope of Work:

1. Testing of OCR capability: UIPath, with the support from the IT team, will rigorously test and enhance the OCR capabilities for index books and birth certificates. The emphasis will be on achieving high accuracy and confidence levels.

2. Design of PoC: After the successful execution of the OCR testing, the PoC will be designed with,

1. Implementation of the human-in-loop correction mechanism.

2. Implementation of Fuzzy Search

Timeline: The PoC will be carried out over a period of maximum 60 days. Preferred start date is w/c 10th of July 2023 with a kick-off meeting, subject to availability of the service and UIPath.

Roles and Responsibilities:

1. Registration Service Team: Provide expertise and input on the specific nuances and characteristics of the process, documents including index books and birth certificates. Define the metrics (accuracy, speed etc) for success of the PoC and evaluate the results.

2. IT Team: Provide technical guidance, support, and troubleshooting to the supplier during the development and testing of the OCR capabilities.

3. Data Team: Responsible for facilitating the provision of relevant documents scans including index books and birth certificates for testing the OCR capability. Define the storage options for documents.

4. UIPath: Main responsibility lies in the testing and implementing the OCR capabilities with a target of achieving high level of accuracy* in OCR of index books and birth certificates and delivering PoC with design of human-in-loop correction and implementation of a fuzzy search system.

Potential Risks:

1. OCR Accuracy: There is a risk that the OCR system does not achieve a high level of accuracy that meets the standards of the service. In that case , the project team may not want to continue to the design phase.

2. Time Constraint: The focus on OCR accuracy might limit the time available for the design phase of human-in-loop correction and fuzzy search implementation. To mitigate this, spend enough time on the design and delivery of the end-to-end project.

*Accuracy is defined by the service and on average should be higher than 90%. The thresholds can be changed based on the document type.
