TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF WIZZ PRIVILEGE PASS
Exclusions/limitations:
1. Definitions
Baggage Fee means the fee as defined on wizzair.com and payable by the passenger for each piece
of Checked Baggage.
Extra Legroom means the service which enables the passenger to sit in one of the most comfortable
seats in the aircraft in the emergency exit rows. Use of this service is subject to certain restrictions
which can be checked on wizzair.com.
Front Row Seat means the service which ensures that the passenger can sit on a seat in the first row
of the cabin. Use of this service is subject to certain restrictions which can be checked on
wizzair.com.
Large Cabin Bag means one piece of Unchecked Baggage passengers are allowed to take with them
onboard as defined in Wizz Air’s Baggage Allowance policy on wizzair.com
Large Cabin Bag Fee means the fee as defined on wizzair.com and payable by the passenger for each
piece of Large Cabin Bag.
Member means the person using Wizz Air's passenger transport services and whose name is given as
member of the WIZZ Privilege Pass during the course of purchase of the WIZZ Privilege Pass.
Priority Boarding means the service which enables the passengers for priority boarding onto the
aircraft.
Seat Selection Fee means the fee payable by the passenger for each seat if selected individually as
defined on wizzair.com.
Upfront Seat means the service which ensures that the passenger can sit on a seat in the first 2-4
rows on A320 and 2-5 rows of the cabin on A321 aircraft. Use of this service is subject to certain
restrictions which can be checked on wizzair.com.
Wizz Air means Wizz Air Hungary Ltd.
WIZZ Privilege Pass means a twelve-month membership program which entitles the Member to add
priority boarding, selection of any seat (including Front Row Seat, Upfront Seat and Extra Legroom
Seat) and Large Cabin Bag to flight reservation for a flight operated by Wizz Air without being
charged with Priority Boarding Fee, Seat Selection Fee or Large Cabin Bag Fee.
2. Purchase of WIZZ Privilege Pass, Member’s rights
2.1. Member may purchase the WIZZ Privilege Pass
- with online booking together with paying the fee for WIZZ Privilege Pass
2.2. During the purchase of WIZZ Privilege Pass, Member will be charged an annual fee.
2.3. WIZZ Priority Pass fee is subject to change by Wizz Air at any time and without notice to the
Member. Any increase in the annual fee will take effect upon renewal of the WIZZ Privilege Pass.
2.4. Members will not be entitled to any refund of any membership fees upon cancellation of WIZZ
Privilege Pass.
2.5. WIZZ Privilege Pass is associated only with the Member indicated as member of the WIZZ
Privilege Pass during the purchase process of the WIZZ Privilege Pass. The Member is entitled to use
WIZZ Privilege Pass only during its own flight reservations (i.e. Member shall be indicated as
passenger during the course of the booking for which he/she would like to benefit from the
membership of WIZZ Privilege Pass).
2.6. The Member cannot upgrade the free Large Cabin Bag to a Checked Baggage through “add
service” in the “my bookings”, “bookings” or “check-in” sections.
3. Validity of WIZZ Privilege Pass
3.1. The term of WIZZ Privilege Pass is a period of twelve consecutive months commencing on the
day of its purchase (i.e. payment of the fee for the WIZZ Privilege Pass, the commencement date)
and ending on the day (inclusive) before the successive anniversary of the commencement date.
4. Miscellaneous
4.1. Membership is not available for children under age of 14 years.
4.2. WIZZ Privilege Pass is not transferable; change of the name of the Member of a given WIZZ
Privilege Pass is not possible. Members must promptly notify Wizz Air upon becoming aware of any
unauthorized use of their WIZZ Privilege Pass.
4.3. Members may not purchase tickets by using their WIZZ Privilege Pass for resale. Change in name
of passengers in a given reservation is also not possible, if WIZZ Privilege Pass was used for the
reservation. WIZZ Privilege Pass benefits are also applicable on the new flight in case of voluntary
flight change or schedule change by Wizz Air.
4.4. Except as specified in the present Terms and Conditions, the services purchased from Wizz Air
shall be subject to the General Conditions of Carriage of Wizz Air. Unless contrary indication appears
term defined in the General Conditions of Carriage of Wizz Air have the same meaning in this Terms
and Conditions.
4.5. Wizz Air expressly forbids WIZZ Privilege Pass being offered for commercial purposes by the
Member or a third party, especially on internet auctions or other web-based platforms.
4.6. This offer is effective until withdrawal. Customer declares that he/she acknowledges the terms
of the present Terms and Conditions.
4.7. Wizz Air reserves the right of amendment these Terms and Conditions at any time without prior
notice. Wizz Air shall inform all Members of such amendments on its website (wizzair.com).
4.8. Wizz Air shall not be liable for any damages arising from any kind of misuse of the WIZZ Privilege
Pass or from its loss or disclosure to anyone.
4.9. This Terms and Conditions shall be construed and take effect in all respects in accordance with
the laws of Hungary. Disputes arising out of the present contract shall be primarily settled through
discussions between the parties.
Effective from 8 April 2015
